docs: update contributing docs and env for m1/m2 devs (#8495)
ibis-project/ibis: docs/contribute/colima.qmd

Reviewer: I this is going to show up as a separate page alongside the ordered contribution docs and I don't think that's the right level for the Colima usage docs.

Can we add all this as a separate section to the `02_workflow.qmd` doc at the bottom?

Author: I thought it wouldn't but it looks like you are right. I'll move to the bottom of workflow.

> # Colima setup for MacOS M1/M2 users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Colima setup for Mac M1/M2 users
```

> If you are working with an `arm64` architecture (Mac M1/M2), you will need to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are working with an M1 or M2 CPU architecture, you will need to
```

The parentheses don't really make sense here IMO unless we're talking about generic arm64 CPU architectures and I don't think we are given the title heading.

> run docker to  be able to test some backends supported by Ibis. With Colima,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
run docker to be able to test some backends supported by Ibis. With Colima,
```

> you can run docker in Mac m1/m2 without Docker Desktop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can run docker on newer Macs without using Docker Desktop.
```

## Colima

> [Colima](https://github.com/abiosoft/colima) is container runtimes on macOS
> (and Linux) with minimal setup, that has M1 macs support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Colima](https://github.com/abiosoft/colima) is container runtime with minimal setup, that has support for Mac M1 and M2 CPUs.
```

### Get started

1. Uninstall Docker Desktop

> If you have Docker desktop installed, followed the references, both of them have
> a section on how to get rid of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have Docker desktop installed, follow the references, both of them have
a section on how to get rid of it.
```

Which references?

2. Install Docker Client with `brew`

> Make sure you brew is up to date and cashed cleaned up, just in case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure your brew installation is up to date and cashed cleaned up, just in case.
```

Assuming `cashed cleaned up` means `cache cleaned up`, does that mean something specific for brew users? Can we avoid mentioning its cache entirely?

```bash
$ brew install docker

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

````

Check installation by doing

```bash
$ docker --version
```

```bash

> $ docker version

Reviewer: Are these two commands meaningfully different? Do we need to write both?

Author: They are, the second won't run because there is no engine installed yet. But I can rework this to make it more clear.

```

Notice we haven't installed any Docker Engine yet.

3. Install Colima

```bash
$ brew install colima
```

> 4. Install Docker Compose Plugin (optional)

Reviewer: I think this is required if someone wants to use `just`. `docker compose` and `docker-compose` are meaningfully different. For example, `docker-compose` does not have the `--wait` flag which we use in the `justfile`.

Author: Interesting, I didn't know that `docker compose` and `docker-compose` where different. I'll re-work this to reflect that we need it for `just up`

If you want to be able to run `docker compose ...` follow this steps. Noticed I
said `docker compose ...` not `docker-compose ...`

According to the official Docker [documentation](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/linux/),
run the following commands in a separate terminal:

Replace the link on the `curl` step with the version you desired, find them here
https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/

```bash
$ DOCKER_CONFIG=${DOCKER_CONFIG:-$HOME/.docker}
$ mkdir -p $DOCKER_CONFIG/cli-plugins
$ curl -SL https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/v2.24.6/docker-compose-darwin-aarch64 -o $DOCKER_CONFIG/cli-plugins/docker-compose
```

Then add execution permission to the downloaded binary:

```bash
$ chmod +x $DOCKER_CONFIG/cli-plugins/docker-compose
```

Check it worked:

```bash
$ docker compose version
```

5. Take it for a spin. (Example for the [Ibis](https://github.com/ibis-project/ibis) project)

```bash
$ colima start

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

````

> Note:
> By default this starts with 2cpu and 2GB of memory, and 60GB disk

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: By default this starts with 2cpu and 2GB of memory, and 60GB disk
```

Should this be callout-note?

```bash
$ colima status
$ colima list
```

> You can modify this, with `--cpu`, `--memory` and `--disk`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can modify this by passing command line arguments (`--cpu`, `--memory` and `--disk`) to `colima start`.
```

And I would put this in the callout-note regarding the initial resource limits.

> In the Ibis repo base directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your Ibis clone
```

```bash
$ just up postgres
```

> This will trigger a docker compose up. Once the container is up and reports a
> healthy status, you can run the tests by doing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the `just` command finishes, you can run the tests by doing:
```

`just up postgres` uses `--wait` which will not background the container until its health check passes. You don't need to wait any longer than that command.

> bash
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```bash
````

$ pytest -m postgres
```

> Once you are done, you can stop the container by doing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Once you are done, you can stop the container by doing:
```

```bash
$ just down postgres
```

> If you are done for the day, and want to avoid the Colima instance eating your

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If you are done for the day, and want to avoid the Colima instance eating your
```

resources, you will want to stop it.

```bash
$ colima stop
```

> You can start colima again with just `colima start`. If you upgraded colima,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you upgraded colima,
```

I don't think we need to restate how to start colima.

you need to delete the existing instance by doing. I also found that if you want
to modify the allocation, you need to delete the existing instance too (unless
you are going only up).

```bash
$ colima delete
```

> **Extra notes**
> 
> - You can provide `--arch` to `colima start` to specify an architecture.
> - You can modify the `--runtime` (by default `docker`) to be `conteinerd`.
> - You can enable kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I think these additional notes may be a bit distracting from the goal of helping developers test Ibis backends on Mac M1/M2.

> **References:**

Reviewer: Quarto has [citations and footnotes](https://quarto.org/docs/authoring/footnotes-and-citations.html) you can use for this, and they'll be rendered will backwards and forwards references.
